A project scheduled to be carried out over a single fiscal year has a budget of $12 600  divided into 12 equal monthly allocations. At the end of the fourth month of that fiscal year  the total amount actually spent on the project was $4 580. By how much was the project over its budget
If the sum of 5  8  12  and 15 is equal to the sum of 3  4  x  and x + 3  what is the value of x 
For which of the following values of n is 100 + n NOT an integer 
Rectangular Floors X and Y have equal area. If Floor X is 12 feet by 18 feet and Floor Y is 9 feet wide  what is the length of Floor Y  in feet
The table above shows the number of employees at each of four salary levels at Company X. What is the average arithmetic mean salary for the 20 employees
A case contains c cartons. Each carton contains b boxes  and each box contains 100 paper clips. How many paper clips are contained in 2 cases
The sum of prime numbers that are greater than 60 but less than 70 is
A rainstorm increased the amount of water stored in State J reservoirs from 124 billion gallons to 138 billion gallons. If the storm increased the amount of water in the reservoirs to 82 percent of total capacity  approximately how many billion gallons of water were the reservoirs short of total capacity prior to the storm
On the graph above  when x = 1 2   y = 2 and when x = 1  y = 1. The graph is symmetric with respect to the vertical line at x = 2. According to the graph  when x = 3  y =
When 1 10 percent of 5 000 is subtracted from 1 10 of 5 000  the difference is
Which of the following is the value of 
Raffle tickets numbered consecutively from 101 through 350 are placed in a box. What is the probability that a ticket selected at random will have a number with a hundreds digit of 2 
When Leo imported a certain item  he paid a 7 percent import tax on the portion of the total value of the item in excess of $1 000. If the amount of the import tax that Leo paid was $87.50  what was the total value of the item
On Monday  a person mailed 8 packages weighing an average arithmetic mean of 12 3 8 pounds  and on Tuesday  4 packages weighing an average of 15 1 4 pounds. What was the average weight  in pounds  of all the packages the person mailed on both days
0.1 + 0.12 + 0.13 =
A carpenter constructed a rectangular sandbox with a capacity of 10 cubic feet. If the carpenter were to make a similar sandbox twice as long  twice as wide  and twice as high as the first sandbox  what would be the capacity  in cubic feet  of the second sandbox
A bakery opened yesterday with its daily supply of 40 dozen rolls. Half of the rolls were sold by noon  and 80 percent of the remaining rolls were sold between noon and closing time. How many dozen rolls had not been sold when the bakery closed yesterday
If the area of a square region having sides of length 6 centimeters is equal to the area of a rectangular region having width 2.5 centimeters  then the length of the rectangle  in centimeters  is
150 is what percent of 30 
The ratio 2 to 1 3 is equal to the ratio
Running at the same constant rate  6 identical machines can produce a total of 270 bottles per minute. At this rate  how many bottles could 10 such machines produce in 4 minutes
Of the five coordinates associated with points A  B  C  D  and E on the number line above  which has the greatest absolute value
If n is a prime number greater than 3  what is the remainder when n2 is divided by 12 
1 1 1 + 3  1 1 1 + 2 =
In the figure above  the coordinates of point V are
A rope 40 feet long is cut into two pieces. If one piece is 18 feet longer than the other  what is the length  in feet  of the shorter piece
A students average arithmetic mean test score on 4 tests is 78. What must be the students score on a 5th test for the students average score on the 5 tests to be 80 
The average distance between the Sun and a certain planet is approximately 2.3 × 1014 inches. Which of the following is closest to the average distance between the Sun and the planet  in kilometers 1 kilometer is approximately 3.9 × 104 inches.
If the quotient a b is positive  which of the following must be true
The dots on the graph above indicate the weights and fuel efficiency ratings for 20 cars. How many of the cars weigh more than 2 500 pounds and also get more than 22 miles per gallon
How many minutes does it take John to type y words if he types at the rate of x words per minute
If O is the center of the circle above  what fraction of the circular region is shaded
If Juan takes 11 seconds to run y yards  how many seconds will it take him to run x yards at the same rate
John has 10 pairs of matched socks. If he loses 7 individual socks  what is the greatest number of pairs of matched socks he can have left
What is the lowest positive integer that is divisible by each of the integers 1 through 7  inclusive
If   then 1 5 0 2 . .+ x = = 5 x
In the figure above  the point on segment PQ that is twice as far from P as from Q is
If n is an integer  which of the following must be even
If 4 is one solution of the equation x2 + 3x + k = 10  where k is a constant  what is the other solution
If a b c d = ad  bc for all numbers a  b  c  and d  then =
The sum 7 8 + 19 is between
If x = 1  3t and y = 2t  1  then for what value of t does x = y 
1  =
0.35 0.33 =
In a horticultural experiment  200 seeds were planted in plot I and 300 were planted in plot II. If 57 percent of the seeds in plot I germinated and 42 percent of the seeds in plot II germinated  what percent of the total number of planted seeds germinated  Note: Figure not drawn to scale.
In the fi gure above  if AB || CE  CE = DE  and y = 45  then x =
How many integers n are there such that 1 < 5n + 5 < 25 
If y is an integer  then the least possible value of |23  5y| is
In a certain population  there are 3 times as many people aged 21 or under as there are people over 21. The ratio of those 21 or under to the total population is
In the figure above  the value of y is
80 + 125 =
Kelly and Chris packed several boxes with books. If Chris packed 60 percent of the total number of boxes  what was the ratio of the number of boxes Kelly packed to the number of boxes Chris packed
Of the following  which is the closest approximation of 50.2 × 0.49 199.8 
The average arithmetic mean of 10  30  and 50 is 5 more than the average of 20  40  and
In the equation above  k is a constant. If y = 17 when x = 2  what is the value of y when x = 4 
Each week  Harry is paid x dollars per hour for the fi rst 30 hours and 1.5x dollars for each additional hour worked that week. Each week  James is paid x dollars per hour for the fi rst 40 hours and 2x dollars for each additional hour worked that week. Last week James worked a total of 41 hours. If Harry and James were paid the same amount last week  how many hours did Harry work last week
A glass was fi lled with 10 ounces of water  and 0.01 ounce of the water evaporated each day during a 20-day period. What percent of the original amount of water evaporated during this period
A glucose solution contains 15 grams of glucose per 100 cubic centimeters of solution. If 45 cubic centimeters of the solution were poured into an empty container  how many grams of glucose would be in the container
In the figure above  if PQRS is a parallelogram  then y  x =
If 1 kilometer is approximately 0.6 mile  which of the following best approximates the number of kilometers in 2 miles
Lucy invested $10 000 in a new mutual fund account exactly three years ago. The value of the account increased by 10 percent during the first year  increased by 5 percent during the second year  and decreased by 10 percent during the third year. What is the value of the account today
A certain fruit stand sold apples for $0.70 each and bananas for $0.50 each. If a customer purchased both apples and bananas from the stand for a total of $6.30  what total number of apples and bananas did the customer purchase
At a certain school  the ratio of the number of second graders to the number of fourth graders is 8 to 5  and the ratio of the number of fi rst graders to the number of second graders is 3 to 4. If the ratio of the number of third graders to the number of fourth graders is 3 to 2  what is the ratio of the number of fi rst graders to the number of third graders
Two integers will be randomly selected from the sets above  one integer from set A and one integer from set B. What is the probability that the sum of the two integers will equal 9 
At a certain instant in time  the number of cars  N  traveling on a portion of a certain highway can be estimated by the formula N = where L is the number of lanes in the same direction  d is the length of the portion of the highway  in feet  and s is the average speed of the cars  in miles per hour. Based on the formula  what is the estimated number of cars traveling on a 1 2 -mile portion of the highway if the highway has 2 lanes in the same direction and the average speed of the cars is 40 miles per hour 5 280 feet = 1 mile
According to the chart shown  which of the following is closest to the median annual number of shipments of manufactured homes in the United States for the years from 1990 to 2000  inclusive
If y 3 5 x y 2   = and y  0  then x =
If x + 5 > 2 and x  3 < 7  the value of x must be between which of the following pairs of numbers
A gym class can be divided into 8 teams with an equal number of players on each team or into 12 teams with an equal number of players on each team. What is the lowest possible number of students in the class
If r = 0.345  s = 0.3452  and t = 0 345 .   which of the following is the correct ordering of r  s  and t 
A total of n trucks and cars are parked in a lot. If the number of cars is 1 4 the number of trucks  and 2 3 of the trucks are pickups  how many pickups  in terms of n  are parked in the lot
At least 2 3 of the 40 members of a committee must vote in favor of a resolution for it to pass. What is the greatest number of members who could vote against the resolution and still have it pass
In the Johnsons monthly budget  the dollar amounts allocated to household expenses  food  and miscellaneous items are in the ratio 5:2:1  respectively. If the total amount allocated to these three categories is $1 800  what is the amount allocated to food
There are 4 more women than men on Centervilles board of education. If there are 10 members on the board  how many are women
Leona bought a 1-year  $10 000 certificate of deposit that paid interest at an annual rate of 8 percent compounded semiannually. What was the total amount of interest paid on this certificate at maturity
Machine A produces bolts at a uniform rate of 120 every 40 seconds  and Machine B produces bolts at a uniform rate of 100 every 20 seconds. If the two machines run simultaneously  how many seconds will it take for them to produce a total of 200 bolts
Data for a certain biology experiment are given in the table above. If the amount of bacteria present increased by the same factor during each of the two 3-hour periods shown  how many grams of bacteria were present at 4:00 P.M. 
If n is an integer greater than 6  which of the following must be divisible by 3 
The total cost for Company X to produce a batch of tools is $10 000 plus $3 per tool. Each tool sells for $8. The gross profi t earned from producing and selling these tools is the total income from sales minus the total production cost. If a batch of 20 000 tools is produced and sold  then Company Xs gross profi t per tool is
A dealer originally bought 100 identical batteries at a total cost of q dollars. If each battery was sold at 50 percent above the original cost per battery  then  in terms of q  for how many dollars was each battery sold
In an increasing sequence of 10 consecutive integers  the sum of the first 5 integers is 560. What is the sum of the last 5 integers in the sequence
Machine A produces 100 parts twice as fast as Machine B does. Machine B produces 100 parts in 40 minutes. If each machine produces parts at a constant rate  how many parts does Machine A produce in 6 minutes
A necklace is made by stringing N individual beads together in the repeating pattern red bead  green bead  white bead  blue bead  and yellow bead. If the necklace design begins with a red bead and ends with a white bead  then N could equal
In the xy-coordinate system  if a b and a + 3 b + k are two points on the line defined by the equation x = 3y  7  then k =
If s is the product of the integers from 100 to 200  inclusive  and t is the product of the integers from 100 to 201  inclusive  what is in terms of t 
If Jake loses 8 pounds  he will weigh twice as much as his sister. Together they now weigh 278 pounds. What is Jakes present weight  in pounds
A certain store sells all maps at one price and all books at another price. On Monday the store sold 12 maps and 10 books for a total of $38.00  and on Tuesday the store sold 20 maps and 15 books for a total of $60.00. At this store  how much less does a map sell for than a book
A store reported total sales of $385 million for February of this year. If the total sales for the same month last year was $320 million  approximately what was the percent increase in sales
If the median of the numbers in list I above is equal to the median of the numbers in list II above  what is the value of x 
In a certain city  60 percent of the registered voters are Democrats and the rest are Republicans. In a mayoral race  if 75 percent of the registered voters who are Democrats and 20 percent of the registered voters who are Republicans are expected to vote for Candidate A  what percent of the registered voters are expected to vote for Candidate A 
Water consists of hydrogen and oxygen  and the approximate ratio  by mass  of hydrogen to oxygen is 2:16. Approximately how many grams of oxygen are there in 144 grams of water
If and   then x x x x x   2 1 0 1 + = +    2     2 3 0  = =
On a scale that measures the intensity of a certain phenomenon  a reading of n + 1 corresponds to an intensity that is 10 times the intensity corresponding to a reading of n. On that scale  the intensity corresponding to a reading of 8 is how many times as great as the intensity corresponding to a reading of 3 
For the positive numbers  n  n + 1  n + 2  n + 4  and n + 8  the mean is how much greater than the median
If T = 5 9 K  32  and if T = 290  then K =
The water from one outlet  flowing at a constant rate  can fill a swimming pool in 9 hours. The water from a second outlet  flowing at a constant rate  can fill the same pool in 5 hours. If both outlets are used at the same time  approximately what is the number of hours required to fill the pool
If a square mirror has a 20-inch diagonal  what is the approximate perimeter of the mirror  in inches
The present ratio of students to teachers at a certain school is 30 to 1. If the student enrollment were to increase by 50 students and the number of teachers were to increase by 5  the ratio of students to teachers would then be 25 to 1. What is the present number of teachers
What is the smallest integer n for which 25n > 512 
Sixty percent of the members of a study group are women  and 45 percent of those women are lawyers. If one member of the study group is to be selected at random  what is the probability that the member selected is a woman lawyer
When positive integer x is divided by positive integer y  the remainder is 9. If x y = 96.12  what is the value of y 
If x is the product of the positive integers from 1 to 8  inclusive  and if i  k  m  and p are positive integers such that x = 2i3k5m7p  then i + k + m + p =
If t = 1 2 5 9 3 × is expressed as a terminating decimal  how many zeros will t have between the decimal point and the fi rst nonzero digit to the right of the decimal point
A pharmaceutical company received $3 million in royalties on the fi rst $20 million in sales of the generic equivalent of one of its products and then $9 million in royalties on the next $108 million in sales. By approximately what percent did the ratio of royalties to sales decrease from the fi rst $20 million in sales to the next $108 million in sales
If p is the product of the integers from 1 to 30  inclusive  what is the greatest integer k for which 3k is a factor of p 
If candy bars that regularly sell for $0.40 each are on sale at two for $0.75  what is the percent reduction in the price of two such candy bars purchased at the sale price
If and   what is in terms of s r
The front of a 6-foot-by-8-foot rectangular door has brass rectangular trim  as indicated by the shading in the figure above. If the trim is uniformly 1 foot wide  what fraction of the doors front surface is covered by the trim
If a = 0.3  which of the following is true
Marys income is 60 percent more than Tims income  and Tims income is 40 percent less than Juans income. What percent of Juans income is Marys income
Each  in the mileage table above represents an entry indicating the distance between a pair of the five cities. If the table were extended to represent the distances between all pairs of 30 cities and each distance were to be represented by only one entry  how many entries would the table then have
If n is positive  which of the following is equal to
The ratio of the length to the width of a rectangular advertising display is approximately 3.3 to 2. If the width of the display is 8 meters  what is the approximate length of the display  in meters
Which of the following is equivalent to the pair of inequalities x + 6 > 10 and x  3  5 
David has d books  which is 3 times as many as Jeff and 1 2 as many as Paula. How many books do the three of them have altogether  in terms of d 
There are 8 teams in a certain league and each team plays each of the other teams exactly once. If each game is played by 2 teams  what is the total number of games played
An operation  is defined by the equation a  b = a  b a + b   for all numbers a and b such that a  b. If a  c and a  c = 0  then c =
The price of lunch for 15 people was $207.00  including a 15 percent gratuity for service. What was the average price per person  EXCLUDING the gratuity
In Town X  64 percent of the population are employed  and 48 percent of the population are employed males. What percent of the employed people in Town X are females
If p q < 1  and p and q are positive integers  which of the following must be greater than 1 
26. It would take one machine 4 hours to complete a large production order and another machine 3 hours to complete the same order. How many hours would it take both machines  working simultaneously at their respective constant rates  to complete the order
To mail a package  the rate is x cents for the first pound and y cents for each additional pound  where x > y. Two packages weighing 3 pounds and 5 pounds  respectively  can be mailed separately or combined as one package. Which method is cheaper  and how much money is saved
If money is invested at r percent interest  compounded annually  the amount of the investment will double in approximately 70 r years. If Pats parents invested $5 000 in a long-term bond that pays 8 percent interest  compounded annually  what will be the approximate total amount of the investment 18 years later  when Pat is ready for college
On a recent trip  Cindy drove her car 290 miles  rounded to the nearest 10 miles  and used 12 gallons of gasoline  rounded to the nearest gallon. The actual number of miles per gallon that Cindys car got on this trip must have been between
Which of the following inequalities is an algebraic expression for the shaded part of the number line above
A factory has 500 workers  15 percent of whom are women. If 50 additional workers are to be hired and all of the present workers remain  how many of the additional workers must be women in order to raise the percent of women employees to 20 percent
In a small snack shop  the average arithmetic mean revenue was $400 per day over a 10-day period. During this period  if the average daily revenue was $360 for the first 6 days  what was the average daily revenue for the last 4 days
A certain country had a total annual expenditure of $1.2 × 1012 last year. If the population of the country was 240 million last year  what was the per capita expenditure
A certain rectangular window is twice as long as it is wide. If its perimeter is 10 feet  then its dimensions in feet are
The diagram above shows the various paths along which a mouse can travel from point X  where it is released  to point Y  where it is rewarded with a food pellet. How many different paths from X to Y can the mouse take if it goes directly from X to Y without retracing any point along a path
If the operation < is defined by x < y = xy for all positive numbers x and y  then 5 < 45 < 60 =
A bar over a sequence of digits in a decimal indicates that the sequence repeats indefinitely. What is the value of 104  1020.0012 
At a loading dock  each worker on the night crew loaded 3 4 as many boxes as each worker on the day crew. If the night crew has 4 5 as many workers as the day crew  what fraction of all the boxes loaded by the two crews did the day crew load
A restaurant meal cost $35.50 and there was no tax. If the tip was more than 10 percent but less than 15 percent of the cost of the meal  then the total amount paid must have been between
In a weight-lifting competition  the total weight of Joes two lifts was 750 pounds. If twice the weight of his first lift was 300 pounds more than the weight of his second lift  what was the weight  in pounds  of his first lift
A club collected exactly $599 from its members. If each member contributed at least $12  what is the greatest number of members the club could have
If y is the smallest positive integer such that 3 150 multiplied by y is the square of an integer  then y must be
If x is the greatest integer less than or equal to x  what is the value of 1.6 + 3.4 + 2.7 
If 4  x 2 + x = x   what is the value of x2 + 3x  4 
The trapezoid shown in the figure above represents a cross section of the rudder of a ship. If the distance from A to B is 13 feet  what is the area of the cross section of the rudder in square feet
In a certain sequence  the term xn is given by the formula x n = 2xn  1  1 2 xn  2 for all n  2. If x0 = 3 and x1 = 2  what is the value of x3 
In the figure above  V represents an observation point at one end of a pool. From V  an object that is actually located on the bottom of the pool at point R appears to be at point S. If VR = 10 feet  what is the distance RS  in feet  between the actual position and the perceived position of the object
If x  y  and k are positive numbers such that and if x < y  which of the following could be the value of k 
During a trip  Francine traveled x percent of the total distance at an average speed of 40 miles per hour and the rest of the distance at an average speed of 60 miles per hour. In terms of x  what was Francines average speed for the entire trip
If x = 1  then x 4  x 3 + x2 x  1 =
A toy store regularly sells all stock at a discount of 20 percent to 40 percent. If an additional 25 percent were deducted from the discount price during a special sale  what would be the lowest possible price of a toy costing $16 before any discount
The shaded portion of the rectangular lot shown above represents a flower bed. If the area of the bed is 24 square yards and x = y + 2  then z equals
Jack is now 14 years older than Bill. If in 10 years Jack will be twice as old as Bill  how old will Jack be in 5 years
An empty pool being filled with water at a constant rate takes 8 hours to fill to 3 5 of its capacity. How much more time will it take to finish filling the pool
A positive number x is multiplied by 2  and this product is then divided by 3. If the positive square root of the result of these two operations equals x  what is the value of x 
A tank contains 10 000 gallons of a solution that is 5 percent sodium chloride by volume. If 2 500 gallons of water evaporate from the tank  the remaining solution will be approximately what percent sodium chloride
For any positive integer n  the sum of the fi rst n positive integers equals n n   +1 2 . What is the sum of all the even integers between 99 and 301 
A committee is composed of w women and m men. If 3 women and 2 men are added to the committee  and if one person is selected at random from the enlarged committee  then the probability that a woman is selected can be represented by175
How many prime numbers between 1 and 100 are factors of 7 150 
The figure above shows a circular flower bed  with its center at O  surrounded by a circular path that is 3 feet wide. What is the area of the path  in square feet
The positive integer n is divisible by 25. If n is greater than 25  which of the following could be the value of n 25 
A fruit-salad mixture consists of apples  peaches  and grapes in the ratio 6:5:2  respectively  by weight. If 39 pounds of the mixture is prepared  the mixture includes how many more pounds of apples than grapes
This year Henry will save a certain amount of his income  and he will spend the rest. Next year Henry will have no income  but for each dollar that he saves this year  he will have 1 + r dollars available to spend. In terms of r  what fraction of his income should Henry save this year so that next year the amount he has available to spend will be equal to half the amount that he spends this year
If m1 =  1 3   then m2 is equal to
Lois has x dollars more than Jim has  and together they have a total of y dollars. Which of the following represents the number of dollars that Jim has
During a certain season  a team won 80 percent of its first 100 games and 50 percent of its remaining games. If the team won 70 percent of its games for the entire season  what was the total number of games that the team played
Of 30 applicants for a job  14 had at least 4 years experience  18 had degrees  and 3 had less than 4 years experience and did not have a degree. How many of the applicants had at least 4 years experience and a degree
If 1+ = 1 2  2 x x   then x =
Last year  for every 100 million vehicles that traveled on a certain highway  96 vehicles were involved in accidents. If 3 billion vehicles traveled on the highway last year  how many of those vehicles were involved in accidents 1 billion = 1 000 000 000
Thirty percent of the members of a swim club have passed the lifesaving test. Among the members who have not passed the test  12 have taken the preparatory course and 30 have not taken the course. How many members are there in the swim club
What is the difference between the sixth and the fi fth terms of the sequence 2  4  7   whose nth term is n + 2n  1 
If x  12 = 400  which of the following could be the value of x  5 
Which of the following describes all values of x for which 1  x2  0 
The probability is 1 2 that a certain coin will turn up heads on any given toss. If the coin is to be tossed three times  what is the probability that on at least one of the tosses the coin will turn up tails
Of the final grades received by the students in a certain math course  1 5 are As  1 4 are Bs  1 2 are Cs  and the remaining 10 grades are Ds. What is the number of students in the course
As x increases from 165 to 166  which of the following must increase
A rectangular box is 10 inches wide  10 inches long  and 5 inches high. What is the greatest possible straight-line distance  in inches  between any two points on the box
The table above shows the number of students in three clubs at McAuliffe School. Although no student is in all three clubs  10 students are in both Chess and Drama  5 students are in both Chess and Math  and 6 students are in both Drama and Math. How many different students are in the three clubs
The ratio of two quantities is 3 to 4. If each of the quantities is increased by 5  what is the ratio of these two new quantities
If the average arithmetic mean of x and y is 60 and the average arithmetic mean of y and z is 80  what is the value of z  x 
If 1 2 of the air in a tank is removed with each stroke of a vacuum pump  what fraction of the original amount of air has been removed after 4 strokes
If the two-digit integers M and N are positive and have the same digits  but in reverse order  which of the following CANNOT be the sum of M and N 
Car X and Car Y traveled the same 80-mile route. If Car X took 2 hours and Car Y traveled at an average speed that was 50 percent faster than the average speed of Car X  how many hours did it take Car Y to travel the route
If the average arithmetic mean of the four numbers K  2K + 3  3K  5  and 5K + 1 is 63  what is the value of K 
If p is an even integer and q is an odd integer  which of the following must be an odd integer
Drum X is 1 2 full of oil and Drum Y  which has twice the capacity of Drum X  is 2 3 full of oil. If all of the oil in Drum X is poured into Drum Y  then Drum Y will be filled to what fraction of its capacity
If x > 0  x 50 + x 25 is what percent of x 
If the operation is defined for all a and b by the equation a b = a2b 3   then 2 3 1 =
The inside dimensions of a rectangular wooden box are 6 inches by 8 inches by 10 inches. A cylindrical canister is to be placed inside the box so that it stands upright when the closed box rests on one of its six faces. Of all such canisters that could be used  what is the radius  in inches  of the one that has maximum volume
What is the units digit of 134172293 
Pat will walk from Intersection X to Intersection Y along a route that is confined to the square grid of four streets and three avenues shown in the map above. How many routes from X to Y can Pat take that have the minimum possible length
The ratio  by volume  of soap to alcohol to water in a certain solution is 2:50:100. The solution will be altered so that the ratio of soap to alcohol is doubled while the ratio of soap to water is halved. If the altered solution will contain 100 cubic centimeters of alcohol  how many cubic centimeters of water will it contain
If 75 percent of a class answered the first question on a certain test correctly  55 percent answered the second question on the test correctly  and 20 percent answered neither of the questions correctly  what percent answered both correctly
In the rectangular coordinate system above  the line y = x is the perpendicular bisector of segment AB not shown  and the x-axis is the perpendicular bisector of segment BC not shown. If the coordinates of point A are 2 3  what are the coordinates of point C 
A store currently charges the same price for each towel that it sells. If the current price of each towel were to be increased by $1  10 fewer of the towels could be bought for $120  excluding sales tax. What is the current price of each towel
In the table above  what is the number of green marbles in Jar R 
A point on the edge of a fan blade that is rotating in a plane is 10 centimeters from the center of the fan. What is the distance traveled  in centimeters  by this point in 15 seconds when the fan runs at the rate of 300 revolutions per minute
If n = 4p  where p is a prime number greater than 2  how many different positive even divisors does n have  including n 
The data sets I  II  and III above are ordered from greatest standard deviation to least standard deviation in which of the following
Of the 50 researchers in a workgroup  40 percent will be assigned to Team A and the remaining 60 percent to Team B. However  70 percent of the researchers prefer Team A and 30 percent prefer Team B. What is the lowest possible number of researchers who will NOT be assigned to the team they prefer
If m is the average arithmetic mean of the first 10 positive multiples of 5 and if M is the median of the first 10 positive multiples of 5  what is the value of M  m 
If m > 0 and x is m percent of y  then  in terms of m  y is what percent of x 
What is the 25th digit to the right of the decimal point in the decimal form of 6 11 
John and Mary were each paid x dollars in advance to do a certain job together. John worked on the job for 10 hours and Mary worked 2 hours less than John. If Mary gave John y dollars of her payment so that they would have received the same hourly wage  what was the dollar amount  in terms of y  that John was paid in advance
In the rectangular coordinate system above  if point R not shown lies on the positive y-axis and the area of triangle ORP is 12  what is the y-coordinate of point R 
Car A is 20 miles behind Car B  which is traveling in the same direction along the same route as Car A. Car A is traveling at a constant speed of 58 miles per hour and Car B is traveling at a constant speed of 50 miles per hour. How many hours will it take for Car A to overtake and drive 8 miles ahead of Car B 
For the past n days  the average arithmetic mean daily production at a company was 50 units. If todays production of 90 units raises the average to 55 units per day  what is the value of n 
If x  0 and x  1  and if x is replaced by 1 x everywhere in the expression above  then the resulting expression is equivalent to
In the figure above  if z = 50  then x + y =
In the coordinate system above  which of the following is the equation of line C 
If a two-digit positive integer has its digits reversed  the resulting integer differs from the original by 27. By how much do the two digits differ
The circle with center C shown above is tangent to both axes. If the distance from O to C is equal to k  what is the radius of the circle  in terms of k 
In an electric circuit  two resistors with resistances x and y are connected in parallel. In this case  if r is the combined resistance of these two resistors  then the reciprocal of r is equal to the sum of the reciprocals of x and y. What is r in terms of x and y 
Xavier  Yvonne  and Zelda each try independently to solve a problem. If their individual probabilities for success are
If 1 x  1 x + 1 = 1 x + 4   then x could be
In a certain game  a large container is filled with red  yellow  green  and blue beads worth  respectively  7  5  3  and 2 points each. A number of beads are then removed from the container. If the product of the point values of the removed beads is 147 000  how many red beads were removed
If 2 1+ 2 = 1 y   then y =
If a  b  and c are consecutive positive integers and a < b < c  which of the following must be true I. c  a = 2 II. abc is an even integer. III. a + b + c 3 is an integer.
A part-time employee whose hourly wage was increased by 25 percent decided to reduce the number of hours worked per week so that the employees total weekly income would remain unchanged. By what percent should the number of hours worked be reduced
Of the 200 students at College T majoring in one or more of the sciences  130 are majoring in chemistry and 150 are majoring in biology. If at least 30 of the students are not majoring in either chemistry or biology  then the number of students majoring in both chemistry and biology could be any number from
If 5  6 x = x  then x has how many possible values
Seed mixture X is 40 percent ryegrass and 60 percent bluegrass by weight seed mixture Y is 25 percent ryegrass and 75 percent fescue. If a mixture of X and Y contains 30 percent ryegrass  what percent of the weight of the mixture is X 
If n is a positive integer  then nn + 1n + 2 is
A straight pipe 1 yard in length was marked off in fourths and also in thirds. If the pipe was then cut into separate pieces at each of these markings  which of the following gives all the different lengths of the pieces  in fractions of a yard
If 0.0015 × 10m 0.03 × 10k = 5 × 107   then m  k =
If x + y = a and x  y = b  then 2xy =
An arithmetic sequence is a sequence in which each term after the first is equal to the sum of the preceding term and a constant. If the list of letters shown above is an arithmetic sequence  which of the following must also be an arithmetic sequence
Right triangle PQR is to be constructed in the xy-plane so that the right angle is at P and PR is parallel to the x-axis. The x- and y-coordinates of P  Q  and R are to be integers that satisfy the inequalities 4  x  5 and 6  y  16. How many different triangles with these properties could be constructed
The value of is how many times the value of 217 153

For which of the following values of n is NOT an integer
On the graph above  when    and when   . The graph is symmetric with respect to the vertical line at . According to the graph  when  
When percent of 5 000 is subtracted from of 5 000  the difference is
Raffle tickets numbered consecutively from 101 through 350 are placed in a box. What is the probability that a ticket selected at random will have a number with a hundreds digit of 2 
The numbers of cars sold at a certain dealership on six of the last seven business days were 4  7  2  8  3  and 6  respectively. If the number of cars sold on the seventh business day was either 2  4  or 5  for which of the three values does the average arithmetic mean number of cars sold per business day for the seven business days equal the median number of cars sold per day for the seven days
A rectangular garden is to be twice as long as it is wide. If 360 yards of fencing  including the gate  will completely enclose the garden  what will be the length of the garden  in yards
If   which of the following could be a value of y 
At a supermarket  John spent of his money on fresh fruits and vegetables  on meat products  and on bakery products. If he spent the remaining $6 on candy  how much did John spend at the supermarket
On Monday  a person mailed 8 packages weighing an average arithmetic mean of pounds  and on Tuesday  4 packages weighing an average of pounds. What was the average weight  in pounds  of all the packages the person mailed on both days
What is the 25th digit to the right of the decimal point in the decimal form of 
The ratio 2 to is equal to the ratio
If the quotient is positive  which of the following must be true
Which of the following equations is NOT equivalent to
If   then
If 4 is one solution of the equation   where k is a constant  what is the other solution
The sum is between
If and   then for what value of t does 
Car X averages 25.0 miles per gallon of gasoline and Car Y averages 11.9 miles per gallon. If each car is driven 12 000 miles  approximately how many more gallons of gasoline will Car Y use than Car X 
How many integers n are there such that 
If y is an integer  then the least possible value of is
In the equation above  k is a constant. If when   what is the value of y when 
Four staff members at a certain company worked on a project. The amounts of time that the four staff members worked on the project were in the ratio 2 to 3 to 5 to 6. If one of the four staff members worked on the project for 30 hours  which of the following CANNOT be the total number of hours that the four staff members worked on the project
Company P had 15 percent more employees in December than it had in January. If Company P had 460 employees in December  how many employees did it have in January
A glass was filled with 10 ounces of water  and 0.01 ounce of the water evaporated each day during a 20-day period. What percent of the original amount of water evaporated during this period
On a certain day  orangeade was made by mixing a certain amount of orange juice with an equal amount of water. On the next day  orangeade was made by mixing the same amount of orange juice with twice the amount of water. On both days  all the orangeade that was made was sold. If the revenue from selling the orangeade was the same for both days and if the orangeade was sold at $0.60 per glass on the first day  what was the price per glass on the second day
In the xy-plane  what is the slope of the line with equation 3x + 7y = 9 
In the figure above  if PQRS is a parallelogram  then
The average distance between the Sun and a certain planet is approximately inches. Which of the following is closest to the average distance between the Sun and the planet  in kilometers 1 kilometer is approximately inches.
At a certain school  the ratio of the number of second graders to the number of fourth graders is 8 to 5  and the ratio of the number of first graders to the number of second graders is 3 to 4. If the ratio of the number of third graders to the number of fourth graders is 3 to 2  what is the ratio of the number of first graders to the number of third graders
If m is the average arithmetic mean of the first 10 positive multiples of 5 and if M is the median of the first 10 positive multiples of 5  what is the value of 
In the coordinate plane  a circle has center 2 3 and passes through the point 5 0. What is the area of the circle
At a certain instant in time  the number of cars  N  traveling on a portion of a certain highway can be estimated by the formula where L is the number of lanes in the same direction  d is the length of the portion of the highway  in feet  and s is the average speed of the cars  in miles per hour. Based on the formula  what is the estimated number of cars traveling on a mile portion of the highway if the highway has 2 lanes in the same direction and the average speed of the cars is 40 miles per hour
Yesterdays closing prices of 2 420 different stocks listed on a certain stock exchange were all different from todays closing prices. The number of stocks that closed at a higher price today than yesterday was 20 percent greater than the number that closed at a lower price. How many of the stocks closed at a higher price today than yesterday
If and   then
If and   the value of x must be between which of the following pairs of numbers
In the figure above  triangle ABC is equilateral  and point P is equidistant from vertices A  B  and C. If triangle ABC is rotated clockwise about point P  what is the minimum number of degrees the triangle must be rotated so that point B will be in the position where point A is now
At least of the 40 members of a committee must vote in favor of a resolution for it to pass. What is the greatest number of members who could vote against the resolution and still have it pass
If n = 20! + 17  then n is divisible by which of the following
In the rectangular solid above  the three sides shown have areas 12  15  and 20  respectively. What is the volume of the solid
After driving to a riverfront parking lot  Bob plans to run south along the river  turn around  and return to the parking lot  running north along the same path. After running 3.25 miles south  he decides to run for only 50 minutes more. If Bob runs at a constant rate of 8 minutes per mile  how many miles farther south can he run and still be able to return to the parking lot in 50 minutes
M is the sum of the reciprocals of the consecutive integers from 201 to 300  inclusive. Which of the following is true
Working simultaneously at their respective constant rates  Machines A and B produce 800 nails in x hours. Working alone at its constant rate  Machine A produces 800 nails in y hours. In terms of x and y  how many hours does it take Machine B  working alone at its constant rate  to produce 800 nails
83. There are 4 more women than men on Centervilles board of education. If there are 10 members on the board  how many are women
The total cost for Company X to produce a batch of tools is $10 000 plus $3 per tool. Each tool sells for $8. The gross profit earned from producing and selling these tools is the total income from sales minus the total production cost. If a batch of 20 000 tools is produced and sold  then Company Xs gross profit per tool is
If Q is an odd number and the median of Q consecutive integers is 120  what is the largest of these integers
A ladder of a fire truck is elevated to an angle of 60° and extended to a length of 70 feet. If the base of the ladder is 7 feet above the ground  how many feet above the ground does the ladder reach
When positive integer x is divided by positive integer y  the remainder is 9. If   what is the value of y 
If and  
On a scale that measures the intensity of a certain phenomenon  a reading of corresponds to an intensity that is 10 times the intensity corresponding to a reading of n. On that scale  the intensity corresponding to a reading of 8 is how many times as great as the intensity corresponding to a reading of 3 
For the positive numbers  n        and   the mean is how much greater than the median
If   and if   then
The water from one outlet  flowing at a constant rate  can fill a swimming pool in 9 hours. The water from a second outlet  flowing at a constant rate  can fill the same pool in 5 hours. If both outlets are used at the same time  approximately what is the number of hours required to fill the pool
If a square mirror has a 20-inch diagonal  what is the approximate perimeter of the mirror  in inches
The present ratio of students to teachers at a certain school is 30 to 1. If the student enrollment were to increase by 50 students and the number of teachers were to increase by 5  the ratio of students to teachers would then be 25 to 1. What is the present number of teachers
What is the smallest integer n for which 
Problem Solving Practice Questions 107. Sixty percent of the members of a study group are women  and 45 percent of those women are lawyers. If one member of the study group is to be selected at random  what is the probability that the member selected is a woman lawyer
Each year for 4 years  a farmer increased the number of trees in a certain orchard by of the number of trees in the orchard the preceding year. If all of the trees thrived and there were 6 250 trees in the orchard at the end of the 4-year period  how many trees were in the orchard at the beginning of the 4-year period
According to the chart shown  which of the following is closest to the median annual number of shipments of manufactured homes in the United States for the years from 1990 to 2000  inclusive
For the positive integers a  b  and k  means that ak is a divisor of b  but ak + 1 is not a divisor of b. If k is a positive integer and   then k is equal to
If is expressed as a terminating decimal  how many zeros will t have between the decimal point and the first nonzero digit to the right of the decimal point
A certain characteristic in a large population has a distribution that is symmetric about the mean m. If 68 percent of the distribution lies within one standard deviation d of the mean  what percent of the distribution is less than m + d 
In a certain district  the ratio of the number of registered Republicans to the number of registered Democrats was . After 600 additional Republicans and 500 additional Democrats registered  the ratio was . After these registrations  there were how many more voters in the district registered as Democrats than as Republicans
114. In Country C  the unemployment rate among construction workers dropped from 16 percent on September 1  1992  to 9 percent on September 1  1996. If the number of construction workers was 20 percent greater on September 1  1996  than on September 1  1992  what was the approximate percent change in the number of unemployed construction workers over this period
A pharmaceutical company received $3 million in royalties on the first $20 million in sales of the generic equivalent of one of its products and then $9 million in royalties on the next $108 million in sales. By approximately what percent did the ratio of royalties to sales decrease from the first $20 million in sales to the next $108 million in sales
If p is the product of the integers from 1 to 30  inclusive  what is the greatest integer k for which 3k is a factor of p 
If n = 38  28  which of the following is NOT a factor of n 
Club X has more than 10 but fewer than 40 members. Sometimes the members sit at tables with 3 members at one table and 4 members at each of the other tables  and sometimes they sit at tables with 3 members at one table and 5 members at each of the other tables. If they sit at tables with 6 members at each table except one and fewer than 6 members at that one table  how many members will be at the table that has fewer than 6 members
In order to complete a reading assignment on time  Terry planned to read 90 pages per day. However  she read only 75 pages per day at first  leaving 690 pages to be read during the last 6 days before the assignment was to be completed. How many days in all did Terry have to complete the assignment on time
If and   what is r in terms of s 
The front of a 6-foot-by-8-foot rectangular door has brass rectangular trim  as indicated by the shading in the figure above. If the trim is uniformly 1 foot wide  what fraction of the doors front surface is covered by the trim
If   which of the following is true
Marys income is 60 percent more than Tims income  and Tims income is 40 percent less than Juans income. What percent of Juans income is Marys income
Each in the mileage table above represents an entry indicating the distance between a pair of the five cities. If the table were extended to represent the distances between all pairs of 30 cities and each distance were to be represented by only one entry  how many entries would the table then have
The ratio of the length to the width of a rectangular advertising display is approximately 3.3 to 2. If the width of the display is 8 meters  what is the approximate length of the display  in meters
An arithmetic sequence is a sequence in which each term after the first is equal to the sum of the preceding term and a constant. If the list of letters shown above is an arithmetic sequence  which of the following must also be an arithmetic sequence
If 3 < x < 100  for how many values of x is the square of a prime number
A researcher plans to identify each participant in a certain medical experiment with a code consisting of either a single letter or a pair of distinct letters written in alphabetical order. What is the least number of letters that can be used if there are 12 participants  and each participant is to receive a different code
An object thrown directly upward is at a height of h feet after t seconds  where h = 16t  32 + 150. At what height  in feet  is the object 2 seconds after it reaches its maximum height
Which of the following is equivalent to the pair of inequalities and 
David has d books  which is 3 times as many as Jeff and as many as Paula. How many books do the three of them have altogether  in terms of d 
If the median of the numbers in list I above is equal to the median of the numbers in list II above  what is the value of x 
There are 8 teams in a certain league and each team plays each of the other teams exactly once. If each game is played by 2 teams  what is the total number of games played
An operation is defined by the equation   for all numbers a and b such that . If and   then
The price of lunch for 15 people was $207.00  including a 15 percent gratuity for service. What was the average price per person  EXCLUDING the gratuity
In Town X  64 percent of the population are employed  and 48 percent of the population are employed males. What percent of the employed people in Town X are females
At his regular hourly rate  Don had estimated the labor cost of a repair job as $336 and he was paid that amount. However  the job took 4 hours longer than he had estimated and  consequently  he earned $2 per hour less than his regular hourly rate. What was the time Don had estimated for the job  in hours
If   and p and q are positive integers  which of the following must be greater than 1 
It would take one machine 4 hours to complete a large production order and another machine 3 hours to complete the same order. How many hours would it take both machines  working simultaneously at their respective constant rates  to complete the order
To mail a package  the rate is x cents for the first pound and y cents for each additional pound  where . Two packages weighing 3 pounds and 5 pounds  respectively  can be mailed separately or combined as one package. Which method is cheaper  and how much money is saved
If money is invested at r percent interest  compounded annually  the amount of the investment will double in approximately years. If Pats parents invested $5 000 in a long-term bond that pays 8 percent interest  compounded annually  what will be the approximate total amount of the investment 18 years later  when Pat is ready for college
On a recent trip  Cindy drove her car 290 miles  rounded to the nearest 10 miles  and used 12 gallons of gasoline  rounded to the nearest gallon. The actual number of miles per gallon that Cindys car got on this trip must have been between A and
Which of the following inequalities is an algebraic expression for the shaded part of the number line above
A factory has 500 workers  15 percent of whom are women. If 50 additional workers are to be hired and all of the present workers remain  how many of the additional workers must be women in order to raise the percent of women employees to 20 percent
In a small snack shop  the average arithmetic mean revenue was $400 per day over a 10-day period. During this period  if the average daily revenue was $360 for the first 6 days  what was the average daily revenue for the last 4 days
A certain country had a total annual expenditure of last year. If the population of the country was 240 million last year  what was the per capita expenditure
A certain rectangular window is twice as long as it is wide. If its perimeter is 10 feet  then its dimensions in feet are
The diagram above shows the various paths along which a mouse can travel from point X  where it is released  to point Y  where it is rewarded with a food pellet. How many different paths from X to Y can the mouse take if it goes directly from X to Y without retracing any point along a path
If the operation is defined by for all positive numbers x and y  then
A bar over a sequence of digits in a decimal indicates that the sequence repeats indefinitely. What is the value of 
At a loading dock  each worker on the night crew loaded as many boxes as each worker on the day crew. If the night crew has as many workers as the day crew  what fraction of all the boxes loaded by the two crews did the day crew load
A restaurant meal cost $35.50 and there was no tax. If the tip was more than 10 percent but less than 15 percent of the cost of the meal  then the total amount paid must have been between
In a weight-lifting competition  the total weight of Joes two lifts was 750 pounds. If twice the weight of his first lift was 300 pounds more than the weight of his second lift  what was the weight  in pounds  of his first lift
A club collected exactly $599 from its members. If each member contributed at least $12  what is the greatest number of members the club could have
If y is the smallest positive integer such that 3 150 multiplied by y is the square of an integer  then y must be
If x is the greatest integer less than or equal to x  what is the value of 
If   what is the value of 
In the first week of the year  Nancy saved $1. In each of the next 51 weeks  she saved $1 more than she had saved in the previous week. What was the total amount that Nancy saved during the 52 weeks
The trapezoid shown in the figure above represents a cross section of the rudder of a ship. If the distance from A to B is 13 feet  what is the area of the cross section of the rudder in square feet
In a certain sequence  the term xn is given by the formula for all . If and   what is the value of x3 
In the figure above  V represents an observation point at one end of a pool. From V  an object that is actually located on the bottom of the pool at point R appears to be at point S. If feet  what is the distance RS  in feet  between the actual position and the perceived position of the object
During a trip  Francine traveled x percent of the total distance at an average speed of 40 miles per hour and the rest of the distance at an average speed of 60 miles per hour. In terms of x  what was Francines average speed for the entire trip
If n = 3343 + 4333  what is the units digit of n 
If   then
The shaded portion of the rectangular lot shown above represents a flower bed. If the area of the bed is 24 square yards and   then z equals
A border of uniform width is placed around a rectangular photograph that measures 8 inches by 10 inches. If the area of the border is 144 square inches  what is the width of the border  in inches
Jack is now 14 years older than Bill. If in 10 years Jack will be twice as old as Bill  how old will Jack be in 5 years
An empty pool being filled with water at a constant rate takes 8 hours to fill to of its capacity. How much more time will it take to finish filling the pool
A positive number x is multiplied by 2  and this product is then divided by 3. If the positive square root of the result of these two operations equals x  what is the value of x 
If is expressed as a terminating decimal  how many nonzero digits will d have
A tank contains 10 000 gallons of a solution that is 5 percent sodium chloride by volume. If 2 500 gallons of water evaporate from the tank  the remaining solution will be approximately what percent sodium chloride
For any positive integer n  the sum of the first n positive integers equals . What is the sum of all the even integers between 99 and 301 
A committee is composed of w women and m men. If 3 women and 2 men are added to the committee  and if one person is selected at random from the enlarged committee  then the probability that a woman is selected can be represented by
How many prime numbers between 1 and 100 are factors of 7 150 
The figure above shows a circular flower bed  with its center at O  surrounded by a circular path that is 3 feet wide. What is the area of the path  in square feet
The positive integer n is divisible by 25. If is greater than 25  which of the following could be the value of 
Last year the price per share of Stock X increased by k percent and the earnings per share of Stock X increased by m percent  where k is greater than m. By what percent did the ratio of price per share to earnings per share increase  in terms of k and m 
Of the 300 subjects who participated in an experiment using virtual-reality therapy to reduce their fear of heights  40 percent experienced sweaty palms  30 percent experienced vomiting  and 75 percent experienced dizziness. If all of the subjects experienced at least one of these effects and 35 percent of the subjects experienced exactly two of these effects  how many of the subjects experienced only one of these effects
A fruit-salad mixture consists of apples  peaches  and grapes in the ratio 6:5:2  respectively  by weight. If 39 pounds of the mixture is prepared  the mixture includes how many more pounds of apples than grapes
If   then m2 is equal to
If and x is m percent of y  then  in terms of m  y is what percent of x 
A photography dealer ordered 60 Model X cameras to be sold for $250 each  which represents a 20 percent markup over the dealers initial cost for each camera. Of the cameras ordered  6 were never sold and were returned to the manufacturer for a refund of 50 percent of the dealers initial cost. What was the dealers approximate profit or loss as a percent of the dealers initial cost for the 60 cameras
Seven pieces of rope have an average arithmetic mean length of 68 centimeters and a median length of 84 centimeters. If the length of the longest piece of rope is 14 centimeters more than 4 times the length of the shortest piece of rope  what is the maximum possible length  in centimeters  of the longest piece of rope
Lois has x dollars more than Jim has  and together they have a total of y dollars. Which of the following represents the number of dollars that Jim has
During a certain season  a team won 80 percent of its first 100 games and 50 percent of its remaining games. If the team won 70 percent of its games for the entire season  what was the total number of games that the team played
Of 30 applicants for a job  14 had at least 4 years experience  18 had degrees  and 3 had less than 4 years experience and did not have a degree. How many of the applicants had at least 4 years experience and a degree
Last year  for every 100 million vehicles that traveled on a certain highway  96 vehicles were involved in accidents. If 3 billion vehicles traveled on the highway last year  how many of those vehicles were involved in accidents
Thirty percent of the members of a swim club have passed the lifesaving test. Among the members who have not passed the test  12 have taken the preparatory course and 30 have not taken the course. How many members are there in the swim club
What is the difference between the sixth and the fifth terms of the sequence 2  4  7   whose nth term is 
If   which of the following could be the value of 
Which of the following describes all values of x for which 
The probability is that a certain coin will turn up heads on any given toss. If the coin is to be tossed three times  what is the probability that on at least one of the tosses the coin will turn up tails
Of the final grades received by the students in a certain math course  are As  are Bs  are Cs  and the remaining 10 grades are Ds. What is the number of students in the course
As x increases from 165 to 166  which of the following must increase
From the consecutive integers 10 to 10  inclusive  20 integers are randomly chosen with repetitions allowed. What is the least possible value of the product of the 20 integers
A rectangular box is 10 inches wide  10 inches long  and 5 inches high. What is the greatest possible straight-line distance  in inches  between any two points on the box
Last Sunday a certain store sold copies of Newspaper A for $1.00 each and copies of Newspaper B for $1.25 each  and the store sold no other newspapers that day. If r percent of the stores revenue from newspaper sales was from Newspaper A and if p percent of the newspapers that the store sold were copies of Newspaper A  which of the following expresses r in terms of p 
The ratio  by volume  of soap to alcohol to water in a certain solution is 2:50:100. The solution will be altered so that the ratio of soap to alcohol is doubled while the ratio of soap to water is halved. If the altered solution will contain 100 cubic centimeters of alcohol  how many cubic centimeters of water will it contain
If 75 percent of a class answered the first question on a certain test correctly  55 percent answered the second question on the test correctly  and 20 percent answered neither of the questions correctly  what percent answered both correctly
In the rectangular coordinate system above  the line is the perpendicular bisector of segment AB not shown  and the x-axis is the perpendicular bisector of segment BC not shown. If the coordinates of point A are 2 3  what are the coordinates of point C 
A store currently charges the same price for each towel that it sells. If the current price of each towel were to be increased by $1  10 fewer of the towels could be bought for $120  excluding sales tax. What is the current price of each towel
If   where p is a prime number greater than 2  how many different positive even divisors does n have  including n 
John and Mary were each paid x dollars in advance to do a certain job together. John worked on the job for 10 hours and Mary worked 2 hours less than John. If Mary gave John y dollars of her payment so that they would have received the same hourly wage  what was the dollar amount  in terms of y  that John was paid in advance
In the rectangular coordinate system above  if point R not shown lies on the positive y-axis and the area of triangle ORP is 12  what is the y-coordinate of point R 
Car A is 20 miles behind Car B  which is traveling in the same direction along the same route as Car A. Car A is traveling at a constant speed of 58 miles per hour and Car B is traveling at a constant speed of 50 miles per hour. How many hours will it take for Car A to overtake and drive 8 miles ahead of Car B 
For the past n days  the average arithmetic mean daily production at a company was 50 units. If todays production of 90 units raises the average to 55 units per day  what is the value of n 
If and   and if x is replaced by everywhere in the expression above  then the resulting expression is equivalent to
In the figure above  if   then
In the coordinate system above  which of the following is the equation of line 
If a two-digit positive integer has its digits reversed  the resulting integer differs from the original by 27. By how much do the two digits differ
The circle with center C shown above is tangent to both axes. If the distance from O to C is equal to k  what is the radius of the circle  in terms of k 
In an electric circuit  two resistors with resistances x and y are connected in parallel. In this case  if r is the combined resistance of these two resistors  then the reciprocal of r is equal to the sum of the reciprocals of x and y. What is r in terms of x and y 
Xavier  Yvonne  and Zelda each try independently to solve a problem. If their individual probabilities for success are     and   respectively  what is the probability that Xavier and Yvonne  but not Zelda  will solve the problem
If   then x could be
List T consists of 30 positive decimals  none of which is an integer  and the sum of the 30 decimals is S. The estimated sum of the 30 decimals  E  is defined as follows. Each decimal in T whose tenths digit is even is rounded up to the nearest integer  and each decimal in T whose tenths digit is odd is rounded down to the nearest integer E is the sum of the resulting integers. If of the decimals in T have a tenths digit that is even  which of the following is a possible value of E  S 
In a certain game  a large container is filled with red  yellow  green  and blue beads worth  respectively  7  5  3  and 2 points each. A number of beads are then removed from the container. If the product of the point values of the removed beads is 147 000  how many red beads were removed
If a  b  and c are consecutive positive integers and   which of the following must be true
Of the 200 students at College T majoring in one or more of the sciences  130 are majoring in chemistry and 150 are majoring in biology. If at least 30 of the students are not majoring in either chemistry or biology  then the number of students majoring in both chemistry and biology could be any number from
If   then x has how many possible values
Seed mixture X is 40 percent ryegrass and 60 percent
If n is a positive integer  then is
A straight pipe 1 yard in length was marked off in fourths and also in thirds. If the pipe was then cut into separate pieces at each of these markings  which of the following gives all the different lengths of the pieces  in fractions of a yard
Right triangle PQR is to be constructed in the xy-plane so that the right angle is at P and is parallel to the x-axis. The x- and y-coordinates of P  Q  and R are to be integers that satisfy the inequalities and . How many different triangles with these properties could be constructed
How many of the integers that satisfy the inequality are less than 5 
The value of is how many times the value of 217 
